---
title: Philosophy- Commentary on Aristotle's Metaphysics - Book A, lesson 10
layout: "post"
published: true
category: philosophy
---
These are my notes on the "Commentary on Aristotle's Metaphysics" by St.Thomas Aquinas. The publisher is Dumb Ox Books, and the translator is John P Rowan.

Lesson 10 - The Platonistic Theory of Ideas

An entire section dedicated to Plato and Socrates. Details the theory of forms/ideas, focusing on both the substance and the principles of things. Explains the relationship between Plato and the Pythagoreans. Explains how we think about mathematical objects and then illustrates some of the issues with his views. 

Plato & Socrates
  - Introduces the formal cause
  - Was taught by Archytas
    - all is in a state of flux
    - no scientific knowledge can be ascertained from the particulars 
  - Introduced universals
  - Plato's opinion
    1. the substance of things
      - positing Ideas
        - assign definitions to universals and not to particulars
        - defined as universal entities, separate from sensible things and defined
        - there are many particulars ascribed to each form
        - particulars participate because they are not entirely the thing that they participate in (fire is not all heat, but participates in heat)
        - 'participation' is a Pythagorean idea, only swapping numbers for ideas
      - positing intermediate substance (mathematical entities)
        - eternal and immobile
        - there are infinite mathematical objects, there is not a perfect triangle that all triangles aspire to.
  - 2 types of abstraction, universal/singular and mathematical
  - if intellectual abstraction, then essential abstraction
  - Aristotle thinks that Plato is wrong to separate math objects and forms. 

    2. the principles of things
      - principles of knowledge (forms)
      - principles of being (ideas)
      - the one and the great and the small are the basic principles of things
      - all is generated by number, because number is measurement
      - differed from Pythagoras, 
        - great and small = unlimited
        - saw the primes as directly connected to the infinite
        - saw even numbers as generators of the material world 
  - Problems with Platonic perspective
    - the problem of instantiation.
    - tried to make sense of good and evil by ascribing physics to thing, didn't arrive at the final cause   
    
      
