---
title: Philosophy- Commentary on Aristotle's Metaphysics - Book A, lesson 4
layout: "post"
published: true
category: philosophy
---
These are my notes on the "Commentary on Aristotle's Metaphysics" by St.Thomas Aquinas. The publisher is Dumb Ox Books, and the translator is John P Rowan.

Lesson 4 
 This section introduces the famous four causes that Aristotle wants to prove all things come from. He then begins to break down views of previous philosophers in relation to these causes. He focuses on those who only believed in the material cause, and details those who believed in a singular substance, and those who believed in multiple or infinite sources of cause.  

What is science?

What do other philosophers say about the causes of things?
  - Giving opinions and explaining weaknesses
	- 4 causes:
	  1. Formal - the form of a thing, why is it so?
	  2. Material
	  3. Efficient - The source of motion
	  4. Final Cause - The goal of a starting point, the going towards an end
	    - The previous philosophers provide a preamble to Aristotle's work
	    - Philosophers who omitted the first cause:
	      b1) Evident things are principles
			- Material cause is mostly the only cause:
			  1. what something is composed of is a principle
			  2. the generation of a thing requires its matter
			  3. the dissolution of things, matter is last in the dissolution
			  4. the matter remains despite the accidental coming and going of quantities
			- Therefore mather is the element and principle of all beings. Nothing is generated or corrupted in an absolute sense, only a qualified one.
			- All material causes, however, they would differ in terms of how many types of matter.
		  b2) Devised extrinsic principles
			- philosophers believing in one cause
			  - Thales - all is water
			  	- The seven wise men - Thales, Pittacus, Solon, Chilo, Periander, Cleobulus, Bias
				- Animals shrivel when water is gone
				- seeds need water to germinate
				- view comes from a poet like Orpheus
					- water gos are the source of generation
					- water is prior to the gods
			  - Hippo - Same as Thales in regard to cause
			  - Anaximenes & Diogenes
			    - Air is the principle
				- Breath is life
			  - Hippasus & Heraclitus
			    - All is fire
				- Everything is in a state of flux
			  - Empedocles
			    - Multiple material causes
				- Nothing is destroyed, but can only be separated
			  - Anaxagoras 
			    - Infinite number of materials
				- Things are only generated by way of separation
			    


