---
title: Philosophy- Commentary on Aristotle's Metaphysics - Book A, lesson 9
layout: "post"
published: true
category: philosophy
---
These are my notes on the "Commentary on Aristotle's Metaphysics" by St.Thomas Aquinas. The publisher is Dumb Ox Books, and the translator is John P Rowan.

Lesson 9 - The Opinions of the Eleatics and Pythagoreans about the Causes of Things 

Details the relation of Pythagorean/Eleatic thought to cause. Determine that there is a problem with cause in that they do not posit motion. By not positing motion, the conversation about cause cannot be approached, as there is no separation of objects. He further determines that Parmenides had a more sophisticated perspective by claiming that there is a seperation between the true reality and the reality experienced by the senses, but ultimately determines that his views on cause are not well defined. 

1. Those who say the whole universe is one being (in an absolute sense)

- universe is one thing substantially, many things accidentally 

- Eleatics don't posit motion

- Parmenides
  - being comes from form, there  is being and non-being

  - what is added to being would not be. Nothing is nothing, so how can it be added

- Melissus
  - Being not generated by other

- Xenophanes
  - all is one and one is god.
 
- Main point - Since they do away with diversity and causality, they must be disregarded, Parmenides tried
  - hot is being, cold is not being
  - there is multitude in the senses but not actually
  - Confuse double and two as being the same, which causes complication
